Notes on Dynamic mode decomposition. We now consider the second data-based approach, the DMD analysis, to study the periodic cylinder wake. For DMD analysis, the mean subtraction from the snapshots is not necessary, unlike the POD analysis. The dominant mode that arises from the DMD analysis corresponds to a static mode (i.e., DMD eigenvalue λ= 1), which is the mean flow. Usually we report the real and imaginary parts of the first two oscillatory DMD modes, and also the magnitude and phase of each of these modes. Note that oscillatory modes appear in complex-conjugate pairs. For brevity, only one element of this pair is usually plotted. Consider the first oscillatory mode. From both the real/imaginary and the magnitude/phase representations, it is evident that this mode captures the top down asymmetry associated with the Kármán vortex shedding, which is consistent with the POD analysis. This is not a coincidence, which will be described shortly. The magnitude/phase plots facilitate the distillation of these physical insights. The magnitude plots can usually clearly reveal the active regions of each mode, whereas the phase plot displays the relative phase between spatial regions. Notes when comparing DMD and POD modes. Unlike the oscillatory DMD modes, all POD modes are real-valued. Since the data here is taken from a limit cycle oscillation, the POD modes appear in pairs. A side-by-side comparison of the dominant POD modes with the first few oscillatory DMD modes reveals a striking semblance of POD modes 1 and 2 with the real and imaginary parts of DMD mode 1. The same semblance can be found when comparing for POD modes 3 and 4 with the real/imaginary parts of DMD mode 2, and so on for the higher order modes. Indeed, one can quantify the similarity between these mode shapes by taking an inner product between the DMD mode and a complex vector whose real and imaginary components are formed by the associated POD mode. Performing such an analysis confirms the strong similarity between POD modes and DMD modes for the periodic cylinder wake. Having established this similarity, it now becomes evident that one can plot the magnitude and phase of pairs of POD modes, much in the way that we had done for the DMD modes. Doing so can provide additional interpretable insights into the dynamic significance of these modal structures. Figure 3 (not shown): DMD analysis of cylinder flow. (a) The first and second DMD modes with their real, imaginary, magnitude, and phase distributions. (b) DMD eigenvalues representing the growth rates and frequencies. We note that spatial modes from POD and DMD are not identical to each other, in general. However, they are identical when the flow is periodic in time, as is the case for the cylinder wake at Re= 100 considered here. We further note that DMD modes are not necessarily orthogonal to each other, whereas POD modes are. This is an important point to remember when spatial modes are used to form a basis set for use in, e.g., reduced-order modeling. Although POD and DMD yield the same spatial modes in the context of the periodic cylinder wake, DMD offers additional information that POD is not equipped to provide. Indeed, each dynamic mode consists of spatial information that is embedded in each DMD mode (see Fig. 3(a)) and temporal information that is embedded in each DMD eigenvalue (see Fig. 3(b)). Since dynamic modes correspond to the spectral decomposition of a best-fit linear operator that maps one snapshot to the next, the dynamics of each DMD mode is comprised of only a single oscillation frequency and a growth/decay rate. To determine the oscillation frequency fi and growth/decay rate gi of spatial mode i, we can make use of the associated DMD eigenvalue λi through fi = ∠λi/(2πδt) and gi = log |λi|/δt with δt denoting the uniform sampling increment between snapshot pairs. In addition to spatial structures (DMD modes) and their simple temporal characteristics (DMD eigenvalues), one can also use the so-called DMD amplitudes to determine the relative contribution of each mode to a particular realization of the system. We note here that different definitions for DMD amplitudes are used throughout the literature. However, two common definitions are (1) DMD amplitudes calculated solely from the initial snapshot, which requires the reciprocal DMD modes, and (2) DMD amplitudes based on all snapshots, which requires a Vandermonde matrix constructed from the DMD eigenvalues. For simplicity, we make use of the former definition in Fig. 3(b). A key lesson to take away from the analysis of a cylinder wake is that the data collection step is an important consideration. Although one may have access to simulation or experimental data from wake start-up through the periodic evolution on the limit cycle, one rarely benefits from “throwing” DMD or another modal analysis technique at this full dataset when particular physical questions are of interest. In some studies, for example, in which the dynamics of a cylinder wake are first split into three distinct regimes: near-equilibrium linear dynamics, post-Hopf bifurcation transient dynamics, and periodic limit cycle dynamics. In performing their analysis, care is taken to consider only snapshots from each of these three regimes independently. Not doing so would contaminate the results of the modal analysis, and would arguably lose the interpretability that was being sought. In such cases also, the evolution of the cylinder wake is divided into four intervals of interest, each associated with a different time scale. Although the cylinder wake is a commonly studied and fairly well-understood flow, such works demonstrate how supplementary signals, such as force response data (i.e., lift in and drag in can be used to delineate between intervals of flow evolution that should be treated separately. By collecting snapshots from these distinct intervals, we can be better equipped to uncover dynamically relevant features and to better understand the dynamical processes underlying the fluid flow. Indeed, in our analyses of the cylinder wake above, we ensured that data was only collected once the wake had reached the limit cycle state. Finally, it is important to highlight a practical caution for users who are interested in conducting DMD analysis of experimental datasets. DMD has been observed to exhibit sensitivities and shown to yield biased results when the snapshot data under consideration possess measurement uncertainties, e.g., due to sensor noise. Thus, users are strongly encouraged to consider noise-robust variants of DMD when analyzing experimentally acquired datasets.