Notes about POD analysis: Data-based techniques only need the flow field data obtained from numerical simulation and do not require knowledge of the governing dynamics. In particular, we consider the proper orthogonal decomposition (POD), which can extract modal contents from a collection of snapshot data. The term snapshot is used in modal analysis to refer to flow field data collected at an instance in time. Before performing POD of the snapshot data, each flow field data at an instance in time needs to be formatted into a column vector. If the velocity field is analyzed with POD, the modes ϕi(x) optimally capture the kinetic energy of the unsteady flow field and the eigenvalues λi represent the amount of kinetic energy held by each mode. That means that the POD analysis finds the best set of spatial modes to extract as much kinetic energy as possible in the flow field over time. These POD modes are orthogonal to each other ensuring the optimality of extracting kinetic energy by each individual modes. In a mathematically abstract sense, we can consider the POD analysis to be fitting a low-dimensional ellipsoid to the given data. Here, we test a two-dimensional unsteady laminar flow over a circular cylinder at a diameter-based Reynolds number of Re=150. A series of instantaneous snapshots of the cylinder is contained in the npz file. The flow is unsteady, exhibiting the von Kármán vortex shedding. For the POD analysis, we collect snapshots (eg. 325) of the flow field over 8 shedding periods (which is around 40 nondimensional times, as the period is around T=5 for a St=0.2). The data is compiled into a data matrix, upon which the snapshot POD is applied. The snapshot based method enables us to perform the decomposition in a computationally tractable manner when the dimension of an individual snapshot is much larger than the total number of snapshots. In performing the POD here, we first subtract the mean from all snapshots, so that we can focus on modal structures associated with fluctuations. The extracted spatial POD modes ϕi(x) capture regions where fluctuations appear in the flow. Since this cylinder flow example is a periodic flow, these spatial modes appear in pairs. This also suggests that the modes are based on advective physics with oscillator-type dynamics. The POD analysis reveals that the fluctuations in the flow field can be captured well with only a small number of mode pairs. The first 8 modes capture 99.97% of the flow fluctuations in terms of the kinetic energy. This means that the high-dimensional flow field can be accurately expressed with only a few spatial modes, suggesting the possibility for significant compression of the flow field data. That is, we reduce the representation of the flow field from the number of grid points (times the number of flow variables) to merely the number of POD modes. The mode shapes associated with the dominant POD modes reveal the dominant energetic spatial structures in the flow. Interestingly, both POD modes 1 and 2 possess a top-down asymmetry, indicating that the dominant energetic structures are associated with the asymmetry of the Kármán wake. These POD modes can serve as a basis to construct a reduced-order model that describes the dynamics of the flow. One of the important properties of the POD modes is the orthogonality of the modes (i.e., ϕi,ϕj= δij), which is attractive for developing sparse reduced-order representation of the flow dynamics. The given 8 POD modes can capture the flow field very well for the given data. However, if the flow is perturbed and deviates away from the original flow, additional modes may be needed to represent the perturbed flow. This is the case for flows at higher Reynolds number which chaotic or even turbulent dynamics. To better capture the perturbed flow, POD analysis may be repeated with the perturbed flow field data or alternative techniques such as the Balanced POD analysis may be utilized (although an adjoint simulation is needed for the latter case). We should keep in mind that the modes extracted from the input flow field data are optimally determined for the provided data and may not be so for the perturbed flows.